[Needs SC vote before merging] Collection requirements: add Forum-related reqs (#1703)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/community/collection_contributors/collection_requirements.rst

To track changes that affect collections:

* Join the `Collection Maintainers & Contributors forum group <https://forum.ansible.com/g/CollectionMaintainer>`_.

> * Subscribe to the `Bullhorn <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#the-bullhorn>`_ Ansible contributor newsletter.

Reviewer: Shouldn't use this a proper RST reference, since this is part of the same docsite? (You'd have to add a label to `community/communication.rst` since right now there is none yet.)

Author: should be already there AFAIK. this reference moved to the doc from that old location, thanks for spotting, i'll fix it

Author: ah, nope, you're right, adding the anchor, thanks

.. _coll_wg_reqs:

> Communication and Working Groups

Reviewer 2: We talk about tags, then Groups without explaining what either are.

We need to be clear about when someone may want a group (rather just a tag)

Also detail how to request a tag

Author: SGTM. Added info, reorganized. thanks, PTAL
Though now i have concerns about the section verbosity or is it OK?

================================

Your collection:

* MUST have a corresponding public tag in the :ref:`ansible_forum` or reuse at least one of the `existing tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_.

>   * In addition, the collection can `request <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#requesting-a-forum-group>`_ a forum group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * In addition, the collection can `request a forum group <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#requesting-a-forum-group>`_.
```

>   * In addition, the collection can `request <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#requesting-a-forum-group>`_ a forum group.

Reviewer: Same here, use a RST ref.

>      * All related tags MUST be associated with the group: everyone who joins the group will automatically get subscribed to the tags.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     * All related tags MUST be associated with the group. Everyone who joins the group is automatically subscribed to the tags.
```

     * The group MUST be public and free to join by any forum user.

> * MUST have a communication section in its README with references to :ref:`ansible_forum` similar to as in the `collection_template README.md <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template#communication>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* MUST have a communication section in its README with references to the :ref:`ansible_forum` similar to the `collection_template README.md <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template#communication>`_.
```

  * The section MUST contain at least a reference to the `Get Help <https://forum.ansible.com/c/help/6>`_ forum category.

>   * The section MUST contain information which tags participants should use for collection-related topics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * The section MUST contain information on which tags participants should use for collection-related topics.
```

  * If the collection has a forum group, the section MUST contain a reference to the group.
  * Maintainers of the collection MUST be subscribed to all associated tags and be members of all associated groups.

>   * Descriptions of the references MUST welcome readers to subscribe to associated tags/join the forum group and participate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Descriptions of the references MUST welcome readers to subscribe to associated tags and join the forum group and participate.
```

Author: would "or" work here? this was what i was trying to convey:)

Author: generalized it

> * SHOULD have the ``Discussions`` GitHub feature disabled in favor of the Forum.

Reviewer 2: Unless GitHub discussions are currently used, this feature MUST be [disabled on the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/enabling-or-disabling-github-discussions-for-a-repository)

* Subscribe to the :ref:`bullhorn` Ansible contributor newsletter.

.. _coll_wg_reqs:

Communication and Working Groups
================================

Forum overview
--------------

The :ref:`ansible_forum` is our default communication platform.

In the context of organizing communication around Ansible collections, you need to understand the following notions:

* `Tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_: together with categories, the tags is the main feature used in the Forum to organize conversations around specific kinds of topics. Most of projects in the Forum have associated tags. In case of Ansible collections, a tag name is usually based on technology the collection automates, for example, ``kubernetes``, ``windows``, or ``postgresql``.
* `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_: allow you to organize users, manage permissions, have a working group page that provides all related information, manage notifications including automatic tag subscription for members, mention or message the whole group, and more. An example of collection working group is the `PostgreSQL Ansible Collection Working Group <https://forum.ansible.com/g/PostgreSQLTeam>`_.

> 

Reviewer 4: Is it worth adding here that only request a forum group if you have a dedicated team that will interact with the forum for this collection. 

We don't want a bunch of groups added that don't add value over just the collection maintainer watching the tag...

Author: @samccann i think it's worth adding anyway. In many cases, people will join afterwards as long as there's invitation in README and just presence on the forum. Take a look at, say, postgresql, mysql, clickhouse, execution environments teams: there were 2-3 folks originally, now there are at least x3 more.
sure, there can be cases like you mentioned and we could purge them from time to time if needed (as well as unused tags: now it's easier to see what's used and what's not compared to the old wiki WGs).
Joining a group gives a sense of belonging to a sub-community compared to just watching a tag and it doesn't cost us much.

See the `Working Groups - things you can ask for! <https://forum.ansible.com/t/working-groups-things-you-can-ask-for/175>`_ forum topic for more details.

Communication requirements
--------------------------

Your collection:

> * MUST have a corresponding public tag in the :ref:`ansible_forum` or reuse at least one of the `existing tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_.
>   * In addition, the collection can :ref:`request a forum group<requesting_forum_group>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MUST have a corresponding public tag in the :ref:`ansible_forum` or reuse at least one of the `existing tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_.

  * In addition, the collection can :ref:`request a forum group<requesting_forum_group>`_.
```

Author: committing as it's about formatting

To track changes that affect collections:

* Join the `Collection Maintainers & Contributors forum group <https://forum.ansible.com/g/CollectionMaintainer>`_.
* Subscribe to the :ref:`bullhorn` Ansible contributor newsletter.

.. _coll_wg_reqs:

Communication and Working Groups
================================

Forum overview
--------------

> The :ref:`ansible_forum` is our default communication platform.

Reviewer 5: Have we officially decided that? Maybe

```suggestion
The :ref:`ansible_forum` is our asynchronous default communication platform.
```

is more accurate.

Author: I think it's a default platform in any sense, @gundalow is that correct?

Reviewer: Hmm, isn't this somewhat related to the proposal https://forum.ansible.com/t/6812 ? I'm really not sure what to write here, since so far we haven't adopted that proposal (and it's still in discussion).

Reviewer 5: > Hmm, isn't this somewhat related to the proposal https://forum.ansible.com/t/6812 ? I'm really not sure what to write here, since so far we haven't adopted that proposal (and it's still in discussion).

Right. I think my suggestion reflects the status quo -- we have been slowly migrating from the mailing lists and Github Issues/Discussions to the forum for *asynchronous* discussion -- but even that hasn't been made official.

Author: Committed, thanks

In the context of organizing communication around Ansible collections, you need to understand the following notions:

> * `Tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_: together with categories, the tags is the main feature used in the Forum to organize conversations around specific kinds of topics. Most of projects in the Forum have associated tags. In case of Ansible collections, a tag name is usually based on technology the collection automates, for example, ``kubernetes``, ``windows``, or ``postgresql``.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* `Tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_: together with categories, tags are the main feature used in the Forum to organize conversations around specific topics. Most Ansible projects have one or more associated tags. For Ansible collections the main tag name is usually the technology the collection targets: examples include `kubernetes <https://forum.ansible.com/tag/kubernetes>`_ for ``kubernetes.core``, `windows <https://forum.ansible.com/tag/windows>`_ for ``ansible.windows``, and `postgresql <https://forum.ansible.com/tag/postgresql>`_ for ``community.postgresql``.
```

> * `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_: allow you to organize users, manage permissions, have a working group page that provides all related information, manage notifications including automatic tag subscription for members, mention or message the whole group, and more. An example of collection working group is the `PostgreSQL Ansible Collection Working Group <https://forum.ansible.com/g/PostgreSQLTeam>`_.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_: groups allow you to organize users, manage permissions, have a working group page that provides related information, automatically subscribe members to tags, mention or message the whole group, and more. An example collection working group is the `PostgreSQL Ansible Collection Working Group <https://forum.ansible.com/g/PostgreSQLTeam>`_.
```

See the `Working Groups - things you can ask for! <https://forum.ansible.com/t/working-groups-things-you-can-ask-for/175>`_ forum topic for more details.

Communication requirements
--------------------------

Your collection:

> * MUST have a corresponding public tag in the :ref:`ansible_forum` or reuse at least one of the `existing tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_.

Reviewer: I would make it explicit that the tag doesn't have to be unique for a collection:
```suggestion
* MUST have a corresponding public tag in the :ref:`ansible_forum` or reuse at least one of the `existing tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_.

  * Multiple collecions can share a tag if they cover similar topics; for example, ``amazon.aws`` and ``community.aws`` could both use the tag ``aws``.
```

  * In addition, the collection can :ref:`request a forum group<requesting_forum_group>`.

     * All related tags MUST be associated with the group. Everyone who joins the group is automatically subscribed to the tags.
     * The group MUST be public and free to join by any forum user.

  * Use the `Requesting a tag/forum group <https://forum.ansible.com/t/requesting-a-tag-forum-group/503>`_ topic to request a tag and a forum group.

* MUST have a communication section in its README with references to the :ref:`ansible_forum` similar to the `collection_template README.md <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template#communication>`_.

>   * The section MUST contain at least a reference to the `Get Help <https://forum.ansible.com/c/help/6>`_ forum category.

Reviewer: I would make that URL include the tag, so that users directly get a list of questions related to the collection, and are suggested the tag when creating a new question:
```suggestion
  * The section MUST contain at least a reference to the `Get Help <https://forum.ansible.com/c/help/6>`_ forum category, potentially including a tag in the URL.
```

* `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_: groups allow you to organize users, manage permissions, have a working group page that provides related information, automatically subscribe members to tags, mention or message the whole group, and more. An example collection working group is the `PostgreSQL Ansible Collection Working Group <https://forum.ansible.com/g/PostgreSQLTeam>`_.

See the `Working Groups - things you can ask for! <https://forum.ansible.com/t/working-groups-things-you-can-ask-for/175>`_ forum topic for more details.

Communication requirements
--------------------------

Your collection:

* MUST have a corresponding public tag in the :ref:`ansible_forum` or reuse at least one of the `existing tags <https://forum.ansible.com/tags>`_.

  * Multiple collections can share a tag if they cover similar topics; for example, ``amazon.aws`` and ``community.aws`` could both use the tag ``aws``.

>   * In addition, the collection can :ref:`request a forum group<requesting_forum_group>`.

Reviewer: Ref: https://forum.ansible.com/t/7316/29
```suggestion
  * In addition, the collection can :ref:`request a forum group<requesting_forum_group>`. If the collection requests or already has a group:
```

Author: makes it much clearer, thanks!
